---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction"
date:   2024-08-27 00:00:00 +0800
categories: introduction
---
I thought to use this first post as an introduction. I am by training, an occupational therapist (and still hold a valid practice license) and a biostatistician.  For my PhD in biostatistics, I worked on developing estimators for sequentially mediated causal effects.  My current interest is still very much in causal inference despite the current hype in artificial intelligence.

On causal inference, I think there is still plenty of work to be done and as far as I can tell, the field has plenty of theoretical results that have yet to be translated into usable and accessible software.  And I think the reason for this lack of software is two-fold.  Firstly, there is not a pressing reason for people to want to model causation.  In many practical applications, people are contented with a predictive framework.  Secondly, the barrier to entry is quite high.  Putting the mathematics aside, the concepts alone are not immediately intuitive to the uninitiated.  After understanding the concepts, one still need to learn the mathematics, and statistical theories and results in order to start understanding how the different methods work.  Only then can one start to develop new methods that uses the concepts and build upon past statistical theories and results. I do hope to continue writing software to aid in statistical analysis.

I use `R` primarily and have used `python` on occasion to write software. I am very partial to functional paradigm of writing code and have on and off taken up `Haskell`. I am nowhere near a proficient programmer with `Haskell` yet and hope to continually work on it. I did do a small project of porting a random number generator to `Haskell` and using it in `R` via `FFI`s. I hope to write more about computational statistics and programming in general in the future.

On my occupational therapist side, my short years in practice taught me many lessons that I will carry on for the rest of my life. Sometimes I wonder, who am I to say anything about occupational therapy? After all, I only practice for a few years. Something about this bugged me because to me, the experience was invaluable. It changed my orientation towards humans and towards life in general. I recently watched the anime, Frieren. The story is about an elf, Frieren. Elves by their very nature, are very long-lived and Frieren is no exception. The anime starts at the end of her epic journey battling the demon king. This journey took about ten years and as a fraction of her lifespan, is a blink of an eye and in one of her interactions with a character in the show, she remarked that even though ten years is but a blink of the eye to her, the experience changed her for life. I understood that the measure of an experience is not in its duration but what we make of the experience. If we spend the time and effort to deliberate about an experience and seek to understand and make sense of it, this is going to be far more valuable to our personal growth than an experience that is not reflected upon.

